>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
we're gonna move on to exercise three.
We're gonna do the same thing as before,
which is we're gonna,
from the command line,
copy ex2.js into ex3.js.
That will maintain our executable bit.
And then we'll open up ex3.js
in the exercises folder.
Before I forget like I did before,
I'm gonna go ahead and update my help so
that we know that we're talking
about ex3 so I don't confuse myself.
>> Kyle Simpson: And we're gonna
start talking about some other issues
related to this streaming that
may not have been that obvious.
One of the nice parts about working with
a stream is that we're basically saying,
listen, do whatever you need to do,
take however long you need to take,
just do all those chunks.
We sorta fire those off and
then we're finished.
So for example,
if I were to insert a console.log
statement after this
processFile statement.
If I said console.log("Complete":).
>> Kyle Simpson: If we
were to run that with say
the,
>> Kyle Simpson: Make sure
to update ex3.js.
Let's say, file=files/hello.txt.
If we were to update,if
we were to run this, and
we'll say, --out, so
we're trying to print stuff out.
You'll notice what happens is that the
complete message happens before we've done
our stream processing, even though the
console message came after process file.
It's because inherently all of
the stream operations are asynchronous.
So how could we wait until all
the stream operations were complete
before doing something like
printing a complete message?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well what we're gonna
need to do is treat process file as
a function that can signal to us
when it has completed its work.
One way of thinking about doing that
is making it to be an async function.,
so it's gonna give us a promise back,
and we can listen for that promise.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then print
the complete message when the promise
finishes.
>> Kyle Simpson: Just so I catch, don't
forget, cuz I often forget to put a .catch
on here so that we can see any
errors that we make in our coding.
Don't forget to do that.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so
how do we make process file wait for
the completion of all of
this streaming stuff?
Well we don't need to hook
into all of these things, but
we need to hook into the very final
stream that is the output stream.
Just before it starts to go to the target
stream, we need to hook into that stream
and we need to know when that
stream finishes, when it closes.
So what I'm gonna do is make
myself a little bit of a helper.
I'm gonna come up here and define a
helper, I'm gonna call it streamComplete.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's gonna take a stream,
and we want to listen for
some stuff on the stream to let us
know when the stream is finished,
and we're gonna return back a promise.
>> Kyle Simpson: The reason I didn't make
stream completely an sync function is
because I need actual control over when
the promise is gonna get resolved.
So I need to actually make a promise here.
Now how am I gonna detect when the stream
that I'm monitoring has finished?
Well they are going to emit
certain different kinds of events.
So under the covers the .pipe utility
is automatically listening for
these various events,
like the data event and so forth.
But there's an end event that is
fired whenever a stream finishes.
So if we were to listen for that event,
then we would know that it had been
finished and that would allow us to know
that we were done with the process files.
So if we said stream.on ("end") event,
>> Kyle Simpson: Then we could call c to
signal that the stream had
reached Its end event.
>> Kyle Simpson: And since I don't need
to do anything else in, I'm sorry, not c,
it's res.
Since I don't need to do anything
else inside of that function,
I'm just gonna pass res.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
how are we gonna use that?
Well down in process file,
remember the thing that we want
to monitor is the output stream.
We wanna monitor when the output stream
fires its end event, that means it has
completely flushed itself to the target
stream, and that means that we are done.
So we're gonna basically say,
>> Kyle Simpson: Set up the piping here.
And then what we basically wanna
do is await the promise completion
of stream complete,
>> Kyle Simpson: With output stream.
>> Kyle Simpson: That should now cause it
to wait the extra couple of milliseconds
so that hello world prints
before the complete message.
And if we use the larger file,
like lorem.txt,
it waits all the way to the end
before printing the complete.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now it's true
that we are able to listen for
the completion of the stream operations.
It's a little bit manual, but we're at
least able to hook into an event and
be notified that something has finished.
But there is a downside here,
and it's especially acute if we start
thinking about building programs
that might be doing really,
really large data set processing.
Because it might be the case
that we write this program, and
then we run it against a file
that's local and it's always there.
But what if this was running against
a really large file that was on a network
mount that had sort of a spotty connection
to the network mountor something, and
things were delayed?
We might want to essentially say, there's
a certain maximum amount of time that
I want to allow this to
go before I give up.
I maybe don't want for my automation
server to just sit there and spin for
hours and hours and hours.
It's not able to process the file within
five minutes, for example, then it should
probably give up and let somebody know
that something's down or whatever.